PRIVACY.md, before:

# Roo Code Privacy Policy

**Last Updated: March 7th, 2025**

Roo Code respects your privacy and is committed to transparency about how we handle your data. Below is a simple breakdown of where key pieces of data go—and, importantly, where they don’t.

### **Where Your Data Goes (And Where It Doesn’t)**

- **Code & Files**: Roo Code accesses files on your local machine when needed for AI-assisted features. When you send commands to Roo Code, relevant files may be transmitted to your chosen AI model provider (e.g., OpenAI, Anthropic, OpenRouter) to generate responses. We do not have access to this data, but AI providers may store it per their privacy policies.
- **Commands**: Any commands executed through Roo Code happen on your local environment. However, when you use AI-powered features, the relevant code and context from your commands may be transmitted to your chosen AI model provider (e.g., OpenAI, Anthropic, OpenRouter) to generate responses. We do not have access to or store this data, but AI providers may process it per their privacy policies.
- **Prompts & AI Requests**: When you use AI-powered features, your prompts and relevant project context are sent to your chosen AI model provider (e.g., OpenAI, Anthropic, OpenRouter) to generate responses. We do not store or process this data. These AI providers have their own privacy policies and may store data per their terms of service.
- **API Keys & Credentials**: If you enter an API key (e.g., to connect an AI model), it is stored locally on your device and never sent to us or any third party, except the provider you have chosen.
- **Telemetry (Usage Data)**: We only collect feature usage and error data if you explicitly opt-in. This telemetry is powered by PostHog and helps us understand feature usage to improve Roo Code. This includes your VS Code machine ID and feature usage patterns and exception reports. We do **not** collect personally identifiable information, your code, or AI prompts.

### **How We Use Your Data (If Collected)**

- If you opt-in to telemetry, we use it to understand feature usage and improve Roo Code.
- We do **not** sell or share your data.
- We do **not** train any models on your data.

### **Your Choices & Control**

- You can run models locally to prevent data being sent to third-parties.
- By default, telemetry collection is off and if you turn it on, you can opt out of telemetry at any time.
- You can delete Roo Code to stop all data collection.

### **Security & Updates**

We take reasonable measures to secure your data, but no system is 100% secure. If our privacy policy changes, we will notify you within the extension.

### **Contact Us**

For any privacy-related questions, reach out to us at support@roocode.com.

---

By using Roo Code, you agree to this Privacy Policy.

Commit message:

Refactor project references from Roo Code to Thea Code and update localization files

PRIVACY.md, after:

# Thea Code Privacy Policy

**Last Updated: March 7th, 2025**

Thea Code respects your privacy and is committed to transparency about how we handle your data. Below is a simple breakdown of where key pieces of data go—and, importantly, where they don’t.

### **Where Your Data Goes (And Where It Doesn’t)**

- **Code & Files**: Thea Code accesses files on your local machine when needed for AI-assisted features. When you send commands to Thea Code, relevant files may be transmitted to your chosen AI model provider (e.g., OpenAI, Anthropic, OpenRouter) to generate responses. We do not have access to this data, but AI providers may store it per their privacy policies.
- **Commands**: Any commands executed through Thea Code happen on your local environment. However, when you use AI-powered features, the relevant code and context from your commands may be transmitted to your chosen AI model provider (e.g., OpenAI, Anthropic, OpenRouter) to generate responses. We do not have access to or store this data, but AI providers may process it per their privacy policies.
- **Prompts & AI Requests**: When you use AI-powered features, your prompts and relevant project context are sent to your chosen AI model provider (e.g., OpenAI, Anthropic, OpenRouter) to generate responses. We do not store or process this data. These AI providers have their own privacy policies and may store data per their terms of service.
- **API Keys & Credentials**: If you enter an API key (e.g., to connect an AI model), it is stored locally on your device and never sent to us or any third party, except the provider you have chosen.
- **Telemetry (Usage Data)**: We only collect feature usage and error data if you explicitly opt-in. This telemetry is powered by PostHog and helps us understand feature usage to improve Thea Code. This includes your VS Code machine ID and feature usage patterns and exception reports. We do **not** collect personally identifiable information, your code, or AI prompts.

### **How We Use Your Data (If Collected)**

- If you opt-in to telemetry, we use it to understand feature usage and improve Thea Code.
- We do **not** sell or share your data.
- We do **not** train any models on your data.

### **Your Choices & Control**

- You can run models locally to prevent data being sent to third-parties.
- By default, telemetry collection is off and if you turn it on, you can opt out of telemetry at any time.
- You can delete Thea Code to stop all data collection.

### **Security & Updates**

We take reasonable measures to secure your data, but no system is 100% secure. If our privacy policy changes, we will notify you within the extension.

### **Contact Us**

For any privacy-related questions, reach out to us at https://github.com/SolaceHarmony/Thea-Code in issues.

---

By using Thea Code, you agree to this Privacy Policy.
